# COMP210_3_journal
## Hardware Interfaces for VR Applications: Evaluation on Prototypes
The paper starts off by speaking about how important it is to immerse the player into the game, it enables the player to feel part of the game and helps remember it. VR helps a lot in immersion as players have more ineraction with the game and they should be able to do this without explination but a lot of research needs to go into this so it all goes smoothly. I think this helps a lot with the game if it feels natural too you as makes it more enjoyable. The next section talks about the hardware and interfaces for VR that help immerse the player and how many different things you can use to do this depending on the type of game you want, thus showing you can make any sort of game and there are ways to make the player feel like part of the game. The author made two seperate games one using an xbox controller and one using a hyrda controller but both using a VR headset. Students evaluated them. The results showed that the students were confident in using the HMD of the oculous however before the tutorial session they had with the hydra controller they felt more comfortable using the standard xbox controller. The students who weren't doing a game degree said users should have knowledge before using the hydra controllers as it is something new not everyone is used, this is fair enough. The students found the game using the hydra controllers was more enjoyable and had a greater sense of immersion compared to the other game with the xbox controller because it was an action game it gave them motion sickness. The other game had a better interface for the users with the hydra controllers, this is a good point as research and tinkering has to go into VR games to reduce motion sickness. Overall this paper is trying to help us understand VR development.

## Exploitation of heuristics for virtual environments
This paper begins by suggesting that a patchwork of heuristics might be more useful than a single list, I agree with this because if you're evaluating things that vary significantly they shouldn't all be evaluated using the same heuristics. It goes on to discuss how they're doing a heuristics test for crisis management in virtual reality. They look at the idea of comparing heuristics
proposed by Sutcliffe and Gault by looking at papers to see if they used the heuristics and if they found them useful. The papers they looked at only used some of the selected heuristics proposed and not many people used them without adapting them to suit themselves. They bring up the idea of using a patchwork system to decided on the heuristics which I personally believe to be a good idea as you can merge patches that your software fits into and pick the heuristics from there and only get ones which are relevant which will save time on checking pointless heuristics for you. The heuristic evaluation results are useful to us as students because it helps give us a clear idea of how to do it ourselves which is useful as heuristics tests can be used to test software/games and uncover all the problems. The results also showed that only ten out of the twelves heuristic category's had issues with them because the other 2 didn't make an appearance in the simulator which is why they suggest taking current heuristic tests and modifying it to fit the purpose. This paper is helping us to understand heuristics tests and how helpful they can be when used right.

## Investigating the balance between virtuality and reality in mobile mixed reality UI design: user perception of an augmented city
This paper discusses peoples perceptions of virtual and real world representations of mobile user interfaces and investigates their initial perceptions by doing a study to get results. To see how peoples perceptions varied between mobile mixed reality and virtual reality they made two phone applications that simulated mobile mixed reality, one was an Augmented camera view of what your camera could see, and the other was a virtual 3D city model. The author wants this paper to held him understand how mixed reality UI and virtual reality UI can be fused together, this is an interesting topic as it can help us as students to understand how to make a good UI for these sorts of games and how not to make some of the issues they found throughout this paper. The results showed that the 3D model of the city was easy to recognize to most users however for the AR one it was harder to see due to sun and shadows, light plays a large part in AR games as phones are having to work out how close and far away things are sometimes due to this and can take away from the experience. Survey shows that most users preferred the UI of camera mode instead of the 3D model. Users preferred the realism that AR UI offered. Main reason 3D was most appealing to the few users was the clarity it gave them. People with bad eye sight and if things like roadworks are going on then 3D is better also. The survey results for the camera UI say it is more realistic and easier to associate with the real world and the drawbacks are battery consumption and malfunction of the app. The survey results for the 3D model say it give them clarity and conceiving the space is easier, you can use it remotely and better ergonomics, the drawbacks were associating the 3D model with reality, slow processor on phone and you have to update the models. They recommended to "Allow users to select between a camera based and virtual reality based user interface according to the situation", "Allow hybrid use of the UI versions" and "Allow the user to use the device unobtrusively". So both AR and VR interfaces have drawbacks but they've found potential ways to try and solve this issue based on study results which is good as they have real feedback. This paper is helping us think about interfaces for our AR/VR project and how we can make the best ones.

## Homuncular Flexibility in Virtual Reality.
This paper talks about how VR allows user to inhabit avatart bodies different to their own and thus can produce side effects that are both psychological and physiological. 

## (Re-)examination of multimodal augmented reality


## Real Virtuality: A Code of Ethical Conduct. Recommendations for Good Scientific Practice and the Consumers of VR-Technology
